So one of the nice things that
Neo4j kind of provides for
you out of the box is it actually
has a very nice browser experience.
And I should say that in the Postgres
section, we could have gone over pgAdmin.
That's a very compatible
project with Postgres.
We can have like a nice
browser experience.
It's like phpMyAdmin if
you're familiar with MySQL.
I think MongoDB has an open
source project similar as well.
The nice thing about Neo4j is it's
actually built directly into Neo4j.
So I want you to just
open your browser and
I want you to go to
localhost:7474 like that, and
you should end up in this Neo4j browser.
We set no authentication.
So you should be able to just say
connect and it should just work.
And you get this really cool
kind of database explorer.
The thing I wanna call it here at the top,
this is actually a query section.
So if I say,
MATCH (n) RETURN n; like that,
it'll actually run this query here, and
it gives us a nice little
visual explorer here.
What is this one?
This is our little sad Michael Cera
that I wasn't able to connect to this.
So this actually returned to us our
entire graph here that we've created with
Scott Pilgrim vs the World, and
it's kinda fun and you can move it around.
You can click on it and expand or
hide the child relationships.
There's a bunch of cool stuff
like that you can do with this.
Anyway, dismiss it, that's fun.
You can also get this in a table, right?
So this is the table layout of what
we returned here, or text or code.
There's a bunch of stuff you can do,
various different ways
you can look at this.
But we'll be using this
little box here at the top.
It's kinda hard to see,
that's why I call it out.
But all of your queries will run here and
then it just adds the new kind of card
here and it pushes the rest down.
Here on the side, you can kinda
get like a database explorer.
It'll tell you that we have nine nodes in
our database, we have seven relationships.
We have movies and persons, we have
acted in and directed relationships.
And here's some also properties.
So if I click on this, it'll show me
all of the nodes with names in them.
It's a nice little way to kind
of explore your database.
Okay, so one of the cool things about this
is it actually has a bunch of different
sample databases and
we're gonna use one of these.
So I'm gonna say,
:play movies, and it's gonna drop down
this little kind of tutorial thing.
So do that, and this is fun to follow.
You can do this as well.
If you click over here,
it'll have this big query here.
I want you to click on the query here and
it's gonna populate all that up here.
This is a very long query that's going
to create a lot of movies and actors and
actresses in our database.
So if I do that, and then I click play
here, it's going to return to us here.
Here's all the movies that Tom Hanks,
for example,
has starred in, as well as people
that have acted with Tom Hanks and
directed and
these various different capacities.
But that's not it.
Now, we have like 130 some actors in
our database, which is cool, actors and
actresses.
Cool, is everyone with me so far?
Okay, if you're having
a problem with that and
you wanna keep using cypher-shell,
I actually did here.
If you come into Neo4j browser,
actually kind of the outline
of how you do it cuz it's kind
of a pain to get this to work.
Yeah, here's a link right here.
If you click this link down here at
the bottom of the course website,
it'll give you just that whole
queries that you can copy and
paste into cypher-shell, and
everything will just work just fine.
Okay, so now, we have a movie database
full of actors and actresses and
directors, and we can start querying
that with fun different kind of queries.
So let's keep doing this
in the browser here.
You can do these queries either in
the browser or in the cypher-shell,
both of those work just fine for me.
The cypher-shell just tends
to be a little bit prettier.
Or sorry, the other way around,
the browser ends up being a little bit
prettier So let's do that.
So I wanna see all of the labels that
I have in my new movie database.
So I'm gonna to say, MATCH (n), so
match all of the nodes in
my particular database,
and I'm gonna say RETURN DISTINCT
labels(n), and count (*).
Actually, you probably wanna, anyway.
So what this is gonna do is it's gonna
go and match every node in our database.
And then distinct, you probably remember
from Postgres, is going to only return.
It's gonna deduplicate all of this.
It's gonna grab all of the labels
from all of these nodes, and
then it's going to count them up for us.
It's going to aggregate
them is the term for that.
So if we run that, we can see one
of them doesn't have a label,
which is why that Michael Cera
one wasn't working.
There we go, we can actually go fix that.
We have 140 that have person and we have
39 that have movie associated with it.
So that's good.
Let's go see in all the various different
kinds of relationships that we have.
So we can say, MATCH (n)-[r], and
then we're not gonna
look at anything here.
You could put a variable here, but we
don't care what it's actually matching to.
So I'm just gonna leave that empty.
And I'm going to RETURN type(r), and
then again,
count(*) to aggregate all that.
And we can see here we have directed,
acted in, produced,
wrote, reviewed, follows.
So there's a bunch of different kind of
relationships that we have here as well.
Okay, so let's just pick an actor and
actress and start making some queries to
kinda figure out what kind of things
that they've acted in with other people.
We were looking at Aubrey Plaza before,
but
let's pick another actor
that has more relationships.
So I'm gonna pick Keanu Reeves
just cuz I also like Keanu Reeves.
So I'm gonna say, MATCH (Keanu:Person) and
I'm gonna say, [:Acted_IN],
In (m:Movie),
With other people who [:ACTED_IN],
and we'll just call this person Costar,
which will be another person.
Oops, how do we get Shift+Enter?
Okay, so if you hold Shift and hit Enter,
it'll allow you to do multiple lines.
WHERE Keanu's name is,
in fact, Keanu Reeves.
We got some nice autocompletion here.
So I'm gonna say Keanu.name
= "Keanu Reeves".
RETURN DISTINCT Costar.name.
It's because we're doing distinct, right?
Because Keanu Reeves has been in,
for example,
Keanu Reeves is in all three Matrices.
[LAUGH] Keanu Reeves is in all three
Matrix films, let's go with that.
So that means that, for
example, Carrie-Anne Moss was in
three different distinct films.
So let's find out who was in
the most films with Keanu Reeves.
So we'll do a count(*) here as well, And
then we'll ORDER BY, Count(*) DESCENDING.
And then after that, let's alphabetize.
So then, you'll say Costar.name.
So if we do this, now,
you have to click play up here,
Dismiss this little thing here as well.
We're gonna get Carrie-Anne Moss,
Hugo Weaving, and Laurence Fishburne,
no surprise, Matrix, who were in three
different films with Keanu Reeves.
And then a bunch of these other people who
were just in one film with Keanu Reeves.
Because we just returned Costar.name,
it's just going to give us
exactly what we asked for.
But what's pretty cool here,
instead of doing all of this aggregation,
what we can do,
I'm gonna just delete all this ORDER BY,
and just RETURN Costar by itself and
not DISTINCT.
So to make this a little bit simpler,
we're gonna return the entire node.
And if we do that in the browser,
the browser is like, cool,
I can show you a visualization of this.
So if I click play now,
we're gonna get a nice little graph here.
Now, we didn't return the relationships.
If we return the relationships, that will
actually make this even prettier for us.
So if I click that and I say, RETURN,
Let's say, we'll call this one a and
return b, and
we return Costar and a and b.
Now, we get like a nice correlation.
We should.
We also need the movie as well,
obviously, And m.
Now, here we go.
Now, you can see all these films that were
in Keanu Reeves, they're disconnected.
And so what's the central
node that we're missing here?
Keanu Reeves himself, right?
So we also have to return Keanu.
Now, after doing all of this,
now we get a nice little graph.
You can see all the stuff and
how they are connected together
in this kind of web of movies.
So you can see these ones are like
highly all attached to the Matrix films,
The Replacements, Johnny Mnemonic,
Something's Got to Give, and
the Devil's Advocate.
Now, if you're doing this in cypher-shell,
obviously, it's far less impressive.
In fact, if I just copy and paste this,
it's gonna be really hard to read in
cypher-shell cuz it's going to return
to just a whole lot of no data,
which is pretty hard to read
on a command line like this.
But in the web browser, it actually
makes it pretty pleasant to look at.